The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Nursery, October 1877, Vol. XXII. No. 4
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Nursery, October 1877, Vol. XXII. No. 4

Author: Various

Release date: February 20, 2009 [eBook #28138]

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Emmy, Juliet Sutherland and the Online
        Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net. Music
        by Linda Cantoni.


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NURSERY, OCTOBER 1877, VOL. XXII. NO. 4 ***




Produced by Emmy, Juliet Sutherland and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net. Music
by Linda Cantoni.








THE

NURSERY


_A Monthly Magazine_


FOR YOUNGEST READERS.


VOLUME XXII.--No. 4.


          BOSTON:
          JOHN L. SHOREY, No. 36 BROMFIELD STREET,
          1877.




          Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1877, by
          JOHN L. SHOREY,
          In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.


          FRANKLIN PRESS:
          RAND, AVERY, AND COMPANY,
          117 FRANKLIN STREET,
          BOSTON.




[Illustration: Contents.]


IN PROSE.

                                                PAGE
  The Parrot that played Truant                   97
  Feeding the Ducks                              100
  Chestnut-Gathering                             104
  A Day with the Alligators                      107
  The Spider and her Family                      110
  Why Uncle Ralph did not hit the Deer           113
  Faithful Dandy                                 114
  Emma and her Doll                              117
  Our old Billy                                  119
  The Thrush feeding the Cuckoo                  120
  The Cat and the Starling                       125

IN VERSE.

                                                PAGE
  A Baby Lay                                     101
  The Pigs                                       106
  How to draw a Goose                            112
  Learn your Lesson                              116
  Jippy and Jimmy                                122
  The jolly old Cooper                           123
  The Express Package                            126
  The White Owl (_with music_)                   128

[Illustration: Birds]



[Illustration: THE PARROT THAT PLAYED TRUANT.]




THE PARROT THAT PLAYED TRUANT.


[Illustration: O]LD Miss Dorothy Draper had a parrot. It was one of the
few things she loved. And the parrot seemed to love her in return. Miss
Dorothy would hang the cage outside of her window every sunny day.
Sometimes an idle boy would come along, and poke a stick between the
wires; and then the old lady would say, "Boy, go away!"

But one day, when the window was open, and the door of the cage was open
also, Polly thought it was a good time to play truant. So she hopped
out, rested on the sill a moment, and then flew into the street, from
tree to tree, and from lamp-post to lamp-post.

Poor Miss Dorothy was in despair. How should she get back her lost pet?
She called in a policeman, and he advised her to get out a handbill,
offering a reward. So in an hour this notice was pasted on the walls
near by:--

          LOST!--A green-and-white parrot. It answers to the
          name of Polly, and can talk quite plainly. It
          says, "Boy, go away!" also, "Polly wants a
          cracker," and "No, you don't!" Any one finding
          this bird shall, on returning it to its afflicted
          owner, Miss D. Draper, No. 10, Maiden Place,
          receive a reward of two dollars.

Little Tony Peterkin was walking home from school, and wishing he had
money enough to buy a copy of Virgil without going to his mother for
it,--for she was a widow, and poor,--when he saw a man pasting this
handbill on a wall. Tony read it, and said aloud, "Oh, I wish I could
find that parrot!"

A girl who heard him said, "I saw a parrot just now on one of the trees
in Lake Street."--"Did you?" said Tony; and off he ran. The parrot had
flown from the tree to the top of the lamp-post; and when Tony got
there, two women, a newsboy, and a policeman were looking up at the
strange fowl.

It was the work of a second for Tony to spring at the iron post, and
begin climbing up. "No, you don't!" cried the parrot. That frightened
Tony, so that he almost dropped; but he took heart when he thought of
the two dollars and a new fresh copy of Virgil.

Up he climbed; but just as he was going to put his hand on the little
cross-bar under the lamp, "Boy, go away!" cried Poll. Tony's heart beat
at these words; but he held on. "Poll, Poll, pretty Poll!" cried he:
"come and get a cracker!"--"Polly wants a cracker," replied the bird.

The truth was, Polly was tired of the street, and wanted to get back to
Miss Dorothy. So, when Polly heard Tony's kind words, she flew down to
the cross-bar, and, when he held out his hand, she lighted on it, and
Tony slid with her down the post to the ground.

"Well done, my lad," said the policeman. He went with Tony, carrying the
bird, to No. 10, Maiden Place; and Miss Dorothy was so much pleased that
she gave Tony three dollars instead of two. On his way home he bought
that copy Of Virgil.

                                                DORA BURNSIDE.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




FEEDING THE DUCKS.


A MILD summer day, and one, two, three, four children sitting on the
ground by the pond, and feeding the ducks!

But I think I hear the larger girl, who is standing up, say to the
sitters, "Children, don't you know better than to sit there on the damp
earth? You will every one of you catch a cold. Get up this instant."

That is what the larger girl ought to say; for many children take bad
colds by sitting on the grass. The other day, as I went through the
Central Park in New York, I saw a maid in charge of three children, one
of them an infant, and she was letting them lie at full-length on the
grass.

I told her she must not do so; but she said the weather was warm, and
there was no danger. As I knew the parents of the children, I told her
she must take the children up at once, and let them sit on the seats
near by.

At length she obeyed me. Two days afterwards I called on the parents of
the children, and then learned that every one of the little ones was ill
with a cold. I told the mother what I had seen at the Central Park and
she told the maid that never again must she let the children sit on the
bare grass. The maid promised she would not do so again.

                                                 AUNT MATILDA.




A BABY LAY.


[Illustration]

          WHAT does the kitten say? "Mew, mew, mew!"
          She shall have some nice milk, warm and new.

[Illustration]

          Up jumps the dog, and says, "Bow, wow, wow!
          I'm as good as kitty, and I'm hungry now."

[Illustration]

          What does the cow say? "Moo, moo, moo!"
          And the pretty little calf tries to say so too.

[Illustration]

          "Ba-a!" says the little lamb,--"baa, baa, baa!"
          What does she mean? Is she calling her mamma?

[Illustration]

          The rooster struts around, and cries, "Cock-a-doodle-doo!"
          As if that were just about the only thing he knew!

[Illustration]

          On the roof the gentle dove says, "Coo, coo, coo!
          Love me, little girls and boys, for I love you."

[Illustration]

          What does the hen say? "Cluck, cluck, cluck!"
          As she scratches for her chickens, and has good luck.

[Illustration]

          What does the bird say? "Peep, peep, peep!"
          As, early in the morning, she rouses us from sleep.

          What does our baby say? "Goo, goo, goo!"
          See the loving glances in her eyes so blue;
          How we rush to take her, at the slightest call!
          Oh! the darling baby is the sweetest pet of all.

                                                         ELLA.

[Illustration]




CHESTNUT-GATHERING.


DID you ever go chestnut-gathering? Such fun as it is! especially when a
lot of girls and boys go together.

On one of my father's farms there were many chestnut-trees; and every
autumn, after the first frost, when the leaves were all turning, and
beginning to fall, we used to have chestnut-gatherings.

The boys used to get long poles, with which they would beat off the
nuts. Sometimes they would climb the trees, and shake or beat off such
nuts as they could not reach from below. And we girls used to help pick
them up, and put them into baskets.

Some years chestnuts are very scarce. I remember one year there was only
one tree that had any nuts on; and we could not reach them: not even a
man could climb it.

One day, Henry, who was a very kind man, said, "Perhaps we will cut that
tree down: it will make good rails, and then you children can get all
the nuts."

We no sooner heard this than we gave him no peace till it was done. And
such an event! For we were to see the tree cut down.

We children were stationed far away from danger; and another man and
Henry chopped and chopped, till it was almost ready to fall, when they
stepped back, and, in less than a minute, there was such a whistling
through the air, such a crashing, and breaking of branches, and then a
loud thud!

The tree was down. I felt quite breathless with excitement; and so did
the others; for it was some minutes before we ran up to see how many
nuts there were.

Oh, such lots! all spread around, and beaten out of the prickly burrs,
all ready for us. I cannot remember how many we gathered, but it was
some bushels; and we could not take all that day: so we concluded to
return the next afternoon after school.

[Illustration]

And what do you think? When we got there, not a nut was to be found! The
little squirrels had been busy in our absence, and had taken away every
one of them. Saucy squirrels! But we did not grudge them the nuts; for
we had plenty.

                                                   AUNT JENNY.




THE PIGS.


          THEY really are a pretty sight,
          My little pigs, so small and white!
          Their tails have such a curious kink;
          Their ears are lined with palest pink:
          They frisk about as brisk and gay
          As school-boys on a holiday.
          I watch them scamper to and fro:
          How clean they look! how fast they grow!
          But they are only pigs, dear me!
          And that is all they'll ever be.

          Beside their pen, above its wall,
          A garden-rose grows fresh and tall,
          Its blossoms, wet with morning dew,
          The sweetest flowers that ever grew.
          With every passing wind that blows
          Comes scattered down a milk-white rose,
          In leaves like scented flakes of snow,
          Upon the little pigs below.
          They only grunt, "Ur, Ur," and say,
          "We want more milk and meal to-day.
          The flowers may bloom, the flowers may fall,
          'Tis no concern of ours at all."
          For they are only pigs, dear me!
          And that is all they'll ever be.

          Upon the rose's highest bough
          There often comes a robin now,
          And sings a song so sweet and clear,
          It makes one happy just to hear;
          For never yet, on summer day,
          Was sung a more delightful lay.
          What care the little pigs below?
          The bird may come, the bird may go;
          For while he sings, "Quee, quee!" they squeal,
          "We want some milk, we want some meal!"
          For they are only pigs, dear me!
          And that is all they'll ever be.

                                               MARIAN DOUGLAS.




A DAY WITH THE ALLIGATORS.


I WANT to tell the young folks who read "The Nursery" something of my
visit to Florida last winter. We first went to Jacksonville, which lies
on the St. John's River, and is a very pleasant city. I wish you would
find it on the map.

One day, as I sat in the reading-room of the hotel, I heard shouts of
laughter, followed by the clapping of hands. "What can it be?" thought
I, throwing down the newspaper I was reading, and running into the
corridor.

There I saw five or six little reptiles, about half the length of my
arm, that seemed to be running a race over the canvas carpet with which
the floor was covered. A number of people were looking on. They appeared
to be highly amused by the queer movements of the creatures.

"What are they? Lizards?" cried I.

"Lizards! No: they are young alligators," said a little girl, in a tone
that implied pity for my ignorance.

"Alligators!" said I, retreating in alarm, as one of them came towards
me.

"Oh, you coward!" cried the little girl, laughing. "They are too small
to hurt you. See me." And, saying this, she took one of them up in her
apron, and brought it towards me. I ran into the reading-room, and she
ran after me; but when she saw that I was really afraid of the reptile,
she took it back to the corridor, and placed it on the floor.

These little alligators grow to be huge creatures, sometimes more than
twenty feet long. They live in the creeks and little rivers that run
into the St. John's. They rarely go very far from the shore. They live
partly on land and partly in the water.

In Florida the weather in January is often quite as warm as it is in the
Northern States in June. So on a fine winter day, my father took my
sister and me on board the steamer "Mayflower" for a trip upon the St.
John's River, and up some of the small streams, where alligators may be
found.

We went some thirty miles towards the south, and then turned into a
small river, where the scenery on both sides resembled that given in the
picture. Cypress-swamps and high trees overgrown with moss everywhere
met our view. On the banks, and generally on fallen logs, might be seen
alligators basking in the sun.

Many of the passengers in the steamboat had brought pistols and guns,
with which to fire at the poor alligators. This is a very cruel and
useless sport, for the alligators do no harm to anybody. I saw ladies
and young girls firing at them. We passed some fifty alligators on our
way.

Father and another gentleman took a boat, and rowed some distance up a
creek. There we saw an alligator with a young one by its side. The young
are very small, compared with the full-grown reptile. You can see from
the picture, that the alligator is not handsome; but that is no reason
why bullets should be lodged in its hide. I came to the conclusion that
firing pistols at these animals was poor and mean sport.

What a lovely day it was! and how we enjoyed the excursion! Just think
of sitting in your summer clothing on a day in January, and passing
through scenery where the trees and shrubs are all green. We returned to
Jacksonville just in time to see the sun set, and we shall not soon
forget our visit among the alligators.

                                       UNCLE CHARLES'S NEPHEW.

[Illustration]




THE SPIDER AND HER FAMILY.


EVERY child has seen spiders in plenty, spinning their webs in some
corner; or, after the web or tent is securely fastened and finished,
lying in wait for some unfortunate fly or mosquito.

[Illustration]

Oftentimes in these webs small brown bags are to be seen, and these, if
opened, will be found to contain a great many little eggs which the
spider has laid; or, sometimes when you open them, you will find that
the eggs have just hatched, and that there is a bag full of tiny spiders
that have not yet seen the light.

Spiders indeed have as many children sometimes as the "Old woman who
lived in a shoe;" but, unlike that famed personage, they seem to know
just what to do. It is very interesting to watch them, and see how they
manage their little ones.

One day as I was walking on a country road, where there was not much
travel, my attention was caught by a large spider in the dust at my
feet, so large that I stopped to look at it. Its body seemed rough and
thick, while its legs were short. I took a stick, and poked it, when,
presto change! my spider had a small, round, smooth body, and long legs.

Truly this was more strange than any sleight-of-hand trick I had ever
seen. I had heard of snakes and frogs shedding their skins, and many
other queer stories of animals and insects, but of nothing at all like
this.

I stooped closer to the ground to see if I could get a clew to the
mystery, and found that the dust all about the large spider was alive
with little ones that she had just shaken off. What a load! And how did
they ever get up on her back? Did they run up her slender legs, and
crowd and cling on?

How I wished I knew the spider language, that I might find out why this
mother weighed herself down with such a burden of little ones as she
walked the street! Was she giving them an airing, and showing them the
world? or had the broom of some housemaid swept away her web, and forced
her thus to take flight to save her family from destruction?

Perhaps she had been burned out. Or was it the first day of May to her?
and had her landlord forced her out of her house because she could not
pay the rent?

Alas! she could not tell me; and I left her there in the road with all
her little ones about her.

                                                  E. M. DAVIS.

[Illustration]




HOW TO DRAW A GOOSE.


[Illustration]

          The Goose has a body
            the shape of an egg.

          With a round head
            a long neck and bill.

          When the weather is cold
            she can stand on one leg
          With some wings she can fly
              if she will.

          Now we give her a tail
            more for beauty than use
          And out of our egg comes
            a very nice goose.




WHY UNCLE RALPH DID NOT HIT THE DEER.


MANY years ago, when I was a little fellow, I went on a sail with my
Uncle Ralph on one of the prettiest of our northern lakes. The day was
fine, the air was mild but fresh, and the hills and banks around us were
clothed in green.

Besides Uncle Ralph, in the boat were my Aunt Mary, and cousins Walter
and Susan Brent. Uncle Ralph was a sportsman, and he had a gun, with
which he hoped to bring down a deer, in case he should see one.

[Illustration]

I did not at all like this part of his plan. I knew it would mar my own
and my aunt's pleasure, if we were made to see the death of a noble stag
or a gentle fawn. But I was too fond of a sail to express my dislike of
Uncle Ralph's plan.

At the foot of a hill we stopped in our little boat to pick berries.
Aunt Mary said she would stay and read. The rest of us went with Uncle
Ralph to a clearing near by, to pick raspberries.

We had not been gone long, when Uncle Ralph sent me back for a mug with
which to get water from a cool spring. As I came within sight of the
boat, I saw Aunt Mary take the ramrod of the gun, extract the bullet,
and then put in fresh wadding, and ram it down.

I understood it all, but said nothing. After we had got berries and
water enough, we set sail again, and this time for the opposite shore,
where Uncle Ralph's keen eyes had detected a stag and two fawns.

We landed in a little cove out of sight of the deer. Uncle Ralph took
his gun, and crept through the woods. In about fifteen minutes we heard
him fire. Aunt Mary smiled, and took up her book. Soon Uncle Ralph came
back.

"Where's your game, Ralph?" asked Aunt Mary.

"Will you believe it," said he: "I got within thirty feet of them; had
the fairest shot that a fellow could possibly have, but somehow I missed
my aim--didn't so much as graze one of them."

"Well, I'm not sorry for it," said Aunt Mary. "We shall enjoy our
luncheon under the trees all the better."

I looked at her, and laughed, but she checked me with a "Hush!"

                                                 ALBERT MASON.




FAITHFUL DANDY.


MR. BAXTER, a poor laboring-man, was the owner of a fine dog, whose name
was Dandy. Having to remove from one village to another in the State of
Maine, Mr. Baxter hired a small wagon on which his furniture was packed.
Then he led the horse, while Dandy followed behind.

When he came to the place where he was to stop, Mr. Baxter unloaded his
wagon, but was sorry to find that a chair and a basket were missing
from the back-part of the wagon, and that Dandy, also, could not be
found. The day passed; and, as the dog did not appear, the poor man
feared that something must have happened to him.

[Illustration]

The next day, as Mr. Baxter was on his way back to the old cottage to
take away another load, he heard the bark of a dog, which sounded very
much like Dandy's. Judge how glad he was when he saw by the roadside,
not only his lost property, but his faithful Dandy, seated erect by the
chair and basket, keeping strict guard over them.

They had fallen from the wagon when Mr. Baxter was not looking; but
Dandy had seen them, and, like a good dog, felt it his duty to stay
behind and guard what belonged to his master.

Although left for so long a time without food, the faithful creature had
never quitted the spot where the chair and basket had fallen. But, when
he saw his master, how glad was poor Dandy! He leaped up, put his paws
on the man's shoulders, and barked with joy.

"Good Dandy! good Dandy!" said Mr. Baxter: "you must be hungry, old
fellow! Come along: you shall have a good dinner for this. While I have
a crust of bread, I'll share it with you, you noble old dog."

                                                UNCLE CHARLES.




LEARN YOUR LESSON.


          YOU'LL not learn your lesson by crying, my man,
          You'll never come at it by crying, my man;
            Not a word can you spy, for the tear in your eye,
          Then put your mind on it, for surely you can.

          Only smile on your lesson, 'twill smile upon you;
          How glibly the words will then jump into view!
            Each word to its place all the others will chase,
          Till you'll wonder to find how well you can do.

          If you cry, you will make yourself stupid or blind,
          And then not an answer will come to your mind;
            But cheer up your heart, and you'll soon have your part,
          For all things grow easy when hearts are inclined.

                                                            C.




EMMA AND HER DOLL.


[Illustration]

EMMA has placed her doll Flora against the pillow. She says, "Now, dear
Flora, I want you to be very good to-morrow, for I am to have company.
It is my birthday."

[Illustration]

Then Emma sat down in a chair, and said to herself, "Why, what an old
person I shall be! I shall be four years old; and I shall have to go to
school soon, and read in my books. I love to look at the pictures now."

[Illustration]

Emma got down from the chair, and placed Flora in it, and said: "I want
you to be very still now, my child, for I am going to say my evening
prayers. You must not cry; you must not stir; for I shall not like it at
all if you make the least noise."

[Illustration]

Then Emma said her prayers, and Flora kept quite still all the while.
"Now I shall take off my shoes, and get into bed," said Emma; and then
she thanked Flora for behaving so well.

                                                      A. B. C.

[Illustration]




OUR OLD BILLY.


WE call him _old_ Billy; but he is not really old: he is a young horse,
and as full of capers as any puppy. After he has been standing in the
barn for two or three days, he acts like a wild creature when he is
taken out, and will whisk round corners, and scamper up and down the
hill, as if he really meant to tear every thing to pieces. But just fill
the carriage up with ladies or babies, and he will step along as
carefully as if he thought an extra joggle would break some of them.

He is very fond of my aunt, who usually drives him; and, when she goes
to ride, he always expects her to give him something good,--an apple, or
a crust, or a lump of sugar. If she has nothing for him, he will grab
the corner of her veil, or the ribbons on her hat, and chew them, to
teach her not to forget him next time; and he will lap her face and
hands, like a dog.

If she goes into a store, and stays longer than he thinks necessary, he
will step across the sidewalk, carriage and all, and try to get his head
in at the door to look for her.

There is another horse in the barn where he is kept,--a very quiet,
well-behaved nag, named Tom; and sometimes, when Billy feels naughty, he
will put his head over the side of the stall and nip Tom, not enough to
hurt much, but just enough to tease him, and make him squeal.

One day auntie heard a great clattering in the barn, and went out to see
what was the matter. When she opened the door, both horses were in their
stalls, and all was quiet. She noticed that the meal-chest was open: so
she closed it, and went out. Before she reached the house, the noise
began again, and she went quietly back, and peeped in at the window.

There was Billy, dipping his nose into the meal-chest, which he had
opened. "Billy, what are you doing?" said auntie; and it was fun enough
to see him whisk into his stall, and stand there as quiet and demure as
a cat that had just been caught eating up the cream.

Billy had slipped the halter, and so set himself free. Since then he has
been fastened more securely; yet he still succeeds in freeing himself
once in a while.

                                              IDA T. THURSTON.




THE THRUSH FEEDING THE CUCKOO.


THE cuckoo is a queer bird. It arrives in England about the middle of
April, and departs in the autumn for the woods of Northern Africa. In
every language the well-known notes of the male bird have suggested its
name.

[Illustration]

In its habits it is shy; and its voice may be often heard whilst the eye
seeks in vain to find the bird itself. Its food consists of caterpillars
and various insects.

The female cuckoo makes no nest, and takes no care of her young. How do
you suppose she does? Having a wide bill, she takes up in it one of her
eggs, which she puts in the nest of some other bird that feeds on
insects.

The strange nurses to whom the cuckoo confides her young become not only
good mothers to them, but neglect their own children to take care of the
young cuckoos.

As the young cuckoo thrives and grows strong, he thrusts the other birds
out of the nest, so that he may have all the room to himself. For five
weeks or more his adopted mother supplies him with food.

In the picture a thrush is represented as feeding a young cuckoo, that
has probably driven off all the thrush's own children.

                                                DORA BURNSIDE.




JIPPY AND JIMMY.


          JIPPY and Jimmy were two little dogs:
          They went to sail on some floating logs.
          The logs rolled over, the dogs rolled in;
          And they got very wet, for their clothes were thin.

          Jippy and Jimmy crept out again:
          They said, "The river is full of rain!"
          They said, "The water is far from dry!
          Ky-hi! ky-hi! ky-hi! ky-hi!"

          Jippy and Jimmy went shivering home:
          They said, "On the river no more we'll roam;
          And we won't go to sail until we learn how,--
          Bow-wow, bow-wow, bow-wow, bow-wow!"

                                            LAURA E. RICHARDS.

[Illustration]




THE JOLLY OLD COOPER.


          A JOLLY old cooper am I,
            And I'm mending this tub, do you see?
          The workmen are gone, and I am alone,
            And their tools are quite handy for me.
          Now hammer and hammer away!
            This hoop I must fit to the tub:
          One, two--but I wish it would stay--
            The workmen have gone to their grub.
          How pleased they will be when they find
          That I can do work to their mind!

          Yes, a jolly old cooper--But stop!
            What's this? Where's the tub? Oh, despair!
          Knocked into a heap there it lies.
            To face them now, how shall I dare?
          The knocks I have given the tub
            Will be echoed, I fear, on my head.
          They are coming! Oh, yes! I can hear,--
            I can hear on the sidewalk a tread.
          Shall I stay, and confess it was I?
          Yes, that's better than telling a lie!

                                                ALFRED SELWYN.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]





THE CAT AND THE STARLING.


THE European starling is a sprightly and handsome bird, about eight
inches long, of a black color with purple and greenish reflections, and
spotted with buff. It may be taught to repeat a few words, and to
whistle short tunes.

A little boy in England, who had one as a pet, which he named Dicky,
tells the following story about it:--

"I took it home with me, and got a cage for it. But Master Dicky was not
satisfied with so little room, and got out, and took possession of the
whole house. One morning I was awakened by his chirping, and, on looking
around, I saw him on my pillow, to which he used to come every morning.

"We had at the same time a cat, with whom he soon became very good
friends. They always drank milk out of the same saucer. One afternoon, a
basin of milk being on the table, Master Dicky thought he would take a
bath: so in he went, splashing the milk all over the table.

"Sometimes he would take it into his head to have a ride on the cat's
back, to which she had no objection. At night he would sleep with the
cat and kitten; and once when the servant came down in the morning, she
said that she saw the cat with her paw around the bird, keeping him
warm, though that seems almost too much to believe."

                                                         R. B.

[Illustration]




THE EXPRESS PACKAGE.


               A PACKAGE came,
               With Gold-Locks' name
          Written in letters bold and free
               Upon the cover:
               She turned it over,
          And cried, "Is it for me, for me?"

               'Twas scarce a minute
               Before within it
          Her eyes had peeped with curious awe:
               There, sweet as a rose,
               And folded close
          In tissue, what do you think she saw?

[Illustration]

          A doll? Ah, yes!
               You would never guess
          A dolly could be so very sweet,
               Or have such grace,
               From the blooming face
          Down to the tips of her slippered feet.

               She smiled, and smiled,
               Like a real live child,
          And opened her eyes of bluest blue,
               As little Gold-Locks
               From out the box
          Lifted, and held her up to view.

               In ruffles and puffs
               Of gauzy stuffs,
          She looked like a fresh white flower, full-blown,
               And Gold-Locks' heart
               Gave a happy start,
          As she thought, "She is all my own, my own!"

                                        MRS. CLARA DOTY BATES.

[Illustration: THE WHITE OWL]




THE WHITE OWL.

[Illustration: Music]


          Words by TENNYSON.                 Music by T. CRAMPTON.

          1. When cats run home and light is come,
          And dew is cold upon the ground,
          And the far-off stream is dumb,
          And the whirring sail goes round,
          And the whirring sail goes round.
          Alone and warming his fine wits,
          The white owl in the belfry sits.

          2. When merry milkmaids click the latch,
          And rarely smells the new-mown hay,
          And the cock beneath the thatch,
          Thrice has sung his roundelay,
          Thrice has sung his roundelay.
          Alone and warming his fine wits,
          The white owl in the belfry sits.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

The July edition of the Nursery had a table of contents for the next six
issues of the year. This table was divided to cover each specific issue.
A title page copied from this same July edition was also used for this
number and the issue number added after the Volume number.

Page 114, "go" changed to "got" (After we had got)

Page 128, period changed to a comma on chorus of song (his fine wits,)







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NURSERY, OCTOBER 1877, VOL. XXII. NO. 4 ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


